# **Finding Lane Lines on the Road** 

---

**Finding Lane Lines on the Road**
The goal of the project is find lane line in image and video through a pipeline. The output image/video should contains the marked lines. 

---

### Reflection

### 1. Describe your pipeline. 

The pipeline of finding lane lines in the image as follows:
* color conversion, convert orginal image with three channels(RGB) into a gray one
* edge detection, get edges of the image based on the gray one
* roi operation, get the region of interest of the image based on the edges
* segment operation, get the segments(lines) of image based on the roi
* merge operation, merge the segmented lines with the original image

The pipeline of finding lane lines in the video as follows:
* read video, and apply the pipelines above through function fl_image. 

There are three confusing points:
1. Hough Transformation, it is a tough work to tune parameters for it. The objective of it is to finding the segments in image. Here is my understanding of it


* rho, step size of sampling lines in hough space
* theta, angle of sampling lines in hough space, always along with rho, determine the number of sample lines in hough space
* threshold, the minimum counts of a specific line in hough space, increase it will reduce the number of points in image
* min_line_len, the minimum points in a line in image, increase it will reduce the number of segments in image
* max_line_gap, the maximux distance between lines in image, increase it will reduce the number of segments in image

The last two parameters have great impact on finding lane lines, expecially some nosing(small) segments exist.

2. Extending the lane lines, it is not a very complexing work, but the result of it would be dramatically amusing if the pipeline you completed above is not handled properly. There are many strategies for it, here is my simple one

* get the most-top/most-bottom points of positive and negtive lane lines within all segments generated by Hough Transformation
* determine the positive and negative lines individually with these two-points
* get the final top/bottom points with two interception lines
* draw the positive and negative lane lines

Updated version of extending lane lines through averaging slope of segments, mainly fixing the severe crossing lane line problem:

* approximate the slope of the lane line
* approximate the center point of lane line
* approximate the bias of the lane line
* determine the top/bottom points of lane line through two interception lines

Flickery still exists few times in the video arising from some nosing(small) segments, and I do not know how to fixed it throughly yet. 

3. Approximating a linear lane line with detected segments may be not a perfect solution, fitting a curve one might be the exist.

### 2. Identify potential shortcomings with your current pipeline

My strategy for extending the lane lines is not stable in the video, since it's easily impacted by result of Hough Transformation.
Flickery still exists in video few times, maybe more tunning work need to be done.


### 3. Suggest possible improvements to your pipeline

There's still some tunning work to be done with Hough Transformation. Fitting a curve lane line might be the perfect solution expecially in a corner of road.
